================
Circular Economy
================

The **Circular Economy** sector represents liquid and solid waste from municipal and domestic sources.

TEMPORARY:
mcf - methane correction factor

ef for recycled materials (this is a production emission factor)

for domestic solid waste:
kg_dbo5_per_capita_per_anho
kg_n2_per_kg_proteina
kg_n2o_per_kg_n
kg_por_persona_proteina_per_anho
max_ch4_per_dbo
max_ch4_per_dco
mcf_ch4_dbo5

- waste generated per capita
- fraction of waste by solid waste category

- DOC (degradable organic carbon)
- k (check)

by applicable type (subcategories):
- fraction of waste recycled
- fraction of waste composted

for REMAINING WASTE:
- fraction of TOTAL waste landfilled
- fraction of TOTAL waste burned
- fraction of TOTAL waste uncaptured

-------

for each liquid waste type:
- fraction that is not sewered
- fraction that is sewered and not treated
- fraction that is sewered + treated



Liquid Waste
============

Liquid waste include...

Variables by Category
---------------------

.. csv-table:: The following variables are required for each category ``$CAT-WASTE-LIQUID$`` of liquid waste.
   :file: ./csvs/table_varreqs_by_category_ce_wali.csv
   :header-rows: 1


Categories
----------

Liquid waste is divided into the following categories, denotes as ``$CAT-WASTE-LIQUID$``.

.. csv-table:: Land Use categories (``$CAT-WASTE-LIQUID$`` attribute table)
   :file: ./csvs/attribute_cat_liquid_waste.csv
   :header-rows: 1


Variables by Partial Category
-----------------------------

Liquid waste includes some variables that apply only to a subset of categories. These variables are described below. The categories that variables apply to are described in the ``category`` column.

.. csv-table:: Trajectories of the following variables are needed for **some** liquid waste categories.
   :file: ./csvs/table_varreqs_by_partial_category_ce_wali.csv
   :header-rows: 1

----

Solid Waste
===========

Solid waste is generated by consumption. Growth in domestic consumption in is driven by GDP per capita, while growth in industrial consumption is driven by production (represented by value added). Solid waste can reach one of four final states: incineration (or open-burning), landfilled, recycling (or composting/anaerobic biogas production for food and yard waste).

.. note:: Process emissions for recycling of recyclable materials that affect virgin production--glass, metals, paper, plastic, rubber and leather, textiles, wood--are treated in `Industrial Processes and Product Use <./ippu.htm>`_.

Variables by Category
---------------------

.. csv-table:: The following variables are required for each category ``$CAT-WASTE-SOLID$`` of solid waste.
   :file: ./csvs/table_varreqs_by_category_ce_waso.csv
   :header-rows: 1

Categories
----------

Solid waste is divided into the following categories, denoted as ``$CAT-WASTE-SOLID$``. The solid waste attribute table requires the specification of parameters used to characterize different types of waste. These parameters--with the exception of industrial and chemical waste--are derived from default values provided by the IPCC in Volume 5, Chapter 2, Table 2.4 of the `2019 Refinement to the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories <https://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2019rf/index.html>`_ and the `2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories <https://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/index.html>`_ (which contains the table) for the source of parameters. Industrial parameters come from Volume 5, Chapter 2, Table 2.5.

.. csv-table:: Solid waste categories (``$CAT-WASTE-SOLID$`` attribute table)
   :file: ./csvs/attribute_cat_solid_waste.csv
   :header-rows: 1


Variables by Partial Category
-----------------------------

Solid waste includes some variables that apply only to a subset of categories. These variables are described below. The categories that variables apply to are described in the ``category`` column.

.. csv-table:: Trajectories of the following variables are needed for **some** solid waste categories.
   :file: ./csvs/table_varreqs_by_partial_category_ce_waso.csv
   :header-rows: 1
